[blog] Share what's changed about the new docs structure (#32044)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/blog/docs-updates.md

---
title: 'New documentation structure: better navigate MUI's products'
description: From now on, each MUI product will live in its own documentation. Find out how that is better for you.
date: 2022-04-04T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['danilo-leal']
tags: ['News']
---

Last year, when we rebranded the company as the first step into consolidating a new phase where we expanded our identity to reflect a larger area of focus, we didn't really do any structural major changes to the documentation other than the design. As we plan on releasing new products that are outside of the Material UI scope, it starts to become confusing to have everything live under the same roof. That's why from now on, each product will have its own sort of documentation, meant to clarify the boundaries between them and to facilitate navigation if your interest lies in a specific one only.

## Wait... what MUI product are you talking about?

> MUI now started as Material UI, an independent implementation of Google's Material Design. The company and its flagship product held the same name for a while. However, as already mentioned, last year we changed the company to MUI—very similar, purposefully, but different enough. Working on Material Design had become only a portion of what we have been developing, so we felt the need to grow from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We started with Material-UI, an independent React implementation of Google's Material Design. The company and its flagship product held the same name. However implementing Material Design has become only a portion of what we offer, so we felt the need to grow from the Material-UI name.
```

Alternatively, the content of this paragraph seems redundant, so:
```suggestion
```

Our main two products now are:

- **MUI Core:** a collection of libraries that offers you foundational components, which includes Material UI but very soon will include other libraries as well. We see it as a product line.
- **MUI X:** a collection of advanced components, meant primarily to support data-heavy applications. Each component lives under its own package.

## What has changed?

All MUI products are still inside the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain but each one of them now lives in an isolated URL and, therefore, documentation. We added on the top left of the docs an identifier and menu for you to locate yourself:

[product identifier screenshot]

As far as the URLs go, this is how they're now:

- **Material UI**: https://mui.com/material-ui/*
- **MUI Base**: https://mui.com/base/*
- **MUI System**: https://mui.com/system/*
- **MUI X - Data grid**: https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/*
- **MUI X - Date and time pickers**: https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/*

## What do I gain?

> We believe separating the documentation will increase your navigation experience a whole bunch. This rings especially louder for MUI X contributors and customers, especially given that we reworked how the internal search feature works, and now looking for any Data Grid specific article is so much more responsive and faster overall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe separating the documentation will significantly improve your navigation experience. This rings especially true for MUI X contributors and customers, considering that we have reworked how search works. Now searching for any Data Grid specific article is much faster.
```

## Next steps

> As we mature each of our products, like adding more components to MUI X and Base, this separation will start to increasingly become more beneficial. We have also been studying ways to separate them from a design perspective—e.g Material UI docs actually use Material Design default look—so there's no confusion what's so ever about what you can expect from installing the libraries on your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As each product grows, such as additional components in MUI X and MUI Base, this separation will become increasingly beneficial. We have also been studying ways to separate them from a design perspective—e.g Material UI docs using Material Design, as they did in v4—so there's no confusion whatsoever about what you can expect when installing a library in your project.
```

> so there's no confusion whatsoever about what you can expect when installing a library in your project.

I disagree. Most of the (relatively few) cases of confusion come from the marketing pages (homepage hero in particular), not from the docs. In the docs it's readily apparent what the components actually look like.

## Wait... what MUI products are you talking about?

Implementing Material Design has become only a portion of what we offer today. Currently, our main two products are:

- **MUI Core:** a collection of libraries that offers you foundational components, which includes Material UI, MUI Base (unstyled components), MUI System, and more. It really is a product line.
- **MUI X:** a collection of advanced components, meant primarily to support data-heavy applications. Differently from Core, each component lives under its own package.

## What has changed?

All MUI products are still under the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain but each of them now has an isolated URL and, therefore, documentation. We added an identifier and menu at the top left of the docs to ease navigation:

[product identifier]

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

- Material UI: https://mui.com/material-ui/_
- MUI Base: https://mui.com/base/_
- MUI System: https://mui.com/system/_
- MUI X - Data grid: https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/_

> - MUI X - Date and time pickers: https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MUI X - Date and time pickers: https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/_
```

? :)

As we plan to release new products that are outside of the scope of Material UI, it'd be confusing to keep everything under the same roof.
That's why, from now on, each product will have its own documentation, to clarify the boundaries between them and to facilitate navigation if your interest lies in one specific product.

## Wait... what MUI products are you talking about?

Implementing Material Design has become only a portion of what we offer today.
Currently, our main two products are:

- **MUI Core:** a collection of libraries that offers you foundational components, which includes Material UI, MUI Base (unstyled components), MUI System, and more. It really is a product line.
- **MUI X:** a collection of advanced components, meant primarily to support data-heavy applications. Differently from Core, each component lives under its own package.

## What has changed?

All MUI products are still under the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain but each of them now has an isolated URL and, therefore, documentation.
We added an identifier and menu at the top left of the docs to ease navigation:

[product identifier]

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

> - Material UI: https://mui.com/material-ui/_
> - MUI Base: https://mui.com/base/_
> - MUI System: https://mui.com/system/_
> - MUI X - Data grid: https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/_
> - MUI X - Date and time pickers: https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Material UI: [https://mui.com/material-ui/_](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/)
- MUI Base: [https://mui.com/base/_](https://mui.com/base/getting-started/installation/)
- MUI System: [https://mui.com/system/_](https://mui.com/system/basics/)
- MUI X - Data grid: [https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/_](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)
- MUI X - Date and time pickers: [https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/_](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/getting-started/)
```

## What do I gain?

We believe separating the documentation will significantly improve your navigation experience.
This rings especially true for MUI Base and MUI X contributors and customers, considering that we have reworked how search works.
Now searching for any Data Grid specific article, for example, is much faster.

## Moving forward

This separation will become increasingly beneficial as each product grows, such as additional components in MUI X and MUI Base.
With it, comes more content to share and an even greater need for better space to accommodate it.

It will also help with the slight confusion we caused by introducing a different design to our marketing website, especially considering that our only design system package so far is Material UI.

> However, as we move forward working on [the second design system package](https://deploy-preview-31620--material-ui.netlify.app/experiments/), the separation will allow each to use their default styles, which will certainly help to avoid confusion about what the component looks like by installing the library, as it was when v4's docs used Material Design without any modification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, as we move forward working on [the second design system package](https://deploy-preview-30686--material-ui.netlify.app/experiments/), the separation will allow each to use their default styles, which will certainly help to avoid confusion about what the component looks like by installing the library, as it was when v4's docs used Material Design without any modification.
```

Reviewer 3: I believe that https://deploy-preview-30686--material-ui.netlify.app/experiments/ is more up-to-date.

---
title: 'New documentation structure: better navigate MUI's products'
description: From now on, each MUI product will live in its own documentation. Find out how that is better for you.
date: 2022-04-06T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['danilo-leal']
tags: ['News']
---

Last year, we [rebranded the company](/blog/material-ui-is-now-mui/) as the first step into consolidating a new phase.
However, we didn't make any major structural changes to the documentation other than the design.
As we plan to release new products that are outside of the scope of Material UI, it'd be confusing to keep everything under the same roof.
That's why, from now on, each product will have its own documentation, to clarify the boundaries between them and to facilitate navigation if your interest lies in one specific product.

## Wait... what MUI products are you talking about?

Currently, our main two products are:

- **MUI Core:** a collection of libraries that offers you foundational components, which includes Material UI, MUI Base (unstyled components), MUI System, and more. It really is a product line.

> - **MUI X:** a collection of advanced components, meant primarily to support data-heavy applications. Differently from Core, each component lives under its own package.

Reviewer 4: I think just a nested list as I've suggested would be fine, but if you wanted to take a step further and create some pretty infographics that would be awesome!

> - **MUI X:** a collection of advanced components, meant primarily to support data-heavy applications. Differently from Core, each component lives under its own package.

Author: Tried sketching a few things but ended up thinking it would be a bit redundant 😅 Thanks for the encouragement though!

All MUI products are still under the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain but each of them now has an isolated URL and, therefore, documentation.
We added an identifier and menu at the top left of the docs to ease navigation:

<img src="/static/blog/docs-updates/docs-separation.png" style="width: 796px; margin-top: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;" alt="Screen shot of the product identifier menu" />

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

- MUI Core:
  - Material UI: [https://mui.com/material-ui/\_](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI Base: [https://mui.com/base/\_](https://mui.com/base/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI System: [https://mui.com/system/\_](https://mui.com/system/basics/)
- MUI X:
  - Data grid: [https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/\_](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)
  - Date and time pickers: [https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/\_](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/getting-started/)

## What do I gain?

We believe separating the documentation will significantly improve your navigation experience.
This rings especially true for MUI Base and MUI X contributors and customers, considering that we have reworked how search works.

> Now searching for any Data Grid specific article, for example, is much faster.

Author: Totally, makes a bunch of sense to expand on this. @siriwatknp Could you drop some insights?

## Moving forward

This separation will become increasingly beneficial as each product grows, such as additional components in MUI X and MUI Base.
With it, comes more content to share and an even greater need for better space to accommodate it.

It will also help with the slight confusion we caused by introducing a different design to our marketing website, especially considering that our only design system package so far is Material UI.

> However, as we move forward working on [the second design system package](https://deploy-preview-30686--material-ui.netlify.app/experiments/), the separation will allow each to use their default styles, which will certainly help to avoid confusion about what the component looks like by installing the library, as it was when v4's docs used Material Design without any modification.

Reviewer 4: I would cut the mention of the past confusion and instead clarify what's meant by "each using their default styles."

```suggestion
As we move forward working on [our second design system package](https://deploy-preview-30686--material-ui.netlify.app/experiments/), the separation will make it possible for us to build the documentation for each system using its default styles—so the docs themselves will serve as examples of their corresponding component libraries.
```

> If you have any feedback or suggestions, we definitely want to hear them.

Reviewer 4: Grammar.

```suggestion
If you have any feedback or suggestions, we definitely want to hear from you.
```

<img src="/static/blog/docs-updates/docs-separation.png" style="width: 796px; margin-top: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;" alt="Screen shot of the product identifier menu" />

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

- MUI Core:
  - Material UI: [https://mui.com/material-ui/](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI Base: [https://mui.com/base/](https://mui.com/base/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI System: [https://mui.com/system/](https://mui.com/system/basics/)
- MUI X:
  - Data Grid: [https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)
  - Date and Time Pickers: [https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/getting-started/)

### Improved search experience

The documentation restructuring ranks the search result based on the product that you are looking at. If you are looking at Material UI documentation (/material-ui/*), when you hit ⌘ + K and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.

We have also added product label for Material UI and MUI Base in case the search result shows the same text.

> // add search result image

Reviewer 3: @danilo-leal Can you help me add the image when searching for "menu unstyle"

You can use this link > https://migration.mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/

As a side benefit of the documentation restructuring, we have seen a huge improvement on the search result for MUI X. The data grid users can now see the comprehensive result when searching for methods. Here is a comparison of before and after when searching for "filter"

> // add comparison images

Reviewer 3: @danilo-leal Can you help me add the before & after images? You can use the key word "pagination"

**Before**: https://mui.com/components/data-grid/getting-started/
**After**: https://migration.mui.com/x/react-data-grid/

---

> title: 'New documentation structure: better navigate MUI's products'

Reviewer 4: What do you think about something less formal and more conversational? I'm trying to come up with a way to center the reader in the title.

```suggestion
title: 'Our docs just got a major upgrade—here's what that means for you'
```

> description: From now on, each MUI product will live in its own documentation. Find out how that is better for you.

Reviewer 4: Rephrasing this for grammar, and to be explicit about "what's in it for me?"

```suggestion
description: Each of MUI's products now has its own dedicated documentation, making it easier than ever to find exactly what you need.
```

## What has changed?

All MUI products still live under the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain, but each of them now has its own respective URL and documentation.
We added an identifier and menu to the upper-left corner of the docs for improved navigation:

<img src="/static/blog/docs-updates/docs-separation.png" style="width: 796px; margin-top: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;" alt="Screen shot of the product identifier menu" />

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

- MUI Core:
  - Material UI: [https://mui.com/material-ui/](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI Base: [https://mui.com/base/](https://mui.com/base/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI System: [https://mui.com/system/](https://mui.com/system/basics/)
- MUI X:
  - Data Grid: [https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)
  - Date and Time Pickers: [https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/getting-started/)

> 📖 The MUI X date and time pickers has been moved from the lab (`@mui/lab`). If you are curious about it, check out the [dedicated blog post](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).

### Improved search experience

> The documentation restructuring ranks the search result based on the product that you are looking at. For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation (/material-ui/\*), when you hit ⌘ + K and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.

Reviewer 4: Grammar. Also, are we able to use `<kbd>` tags?

```suggestion
The documentation restructuring ranks search results based on the product that you are currently looking at. For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation (/material-ui/\*), when you press <kbd>⌘</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.
```

> We have also added product label for Material UI and MUI Base in case the search result shows the same text.

Reviewer 4: Rephrasing for clarity.

```suggestion
We have also added product labels for Material UI and MUI Base in case it's unclear which library the search results refer to.
```

// add search result image

> As a side benefit of the documentation restructuring, we have seen a huge improvement on the search result for MUI X. The data grid users can now see the comprehensive result when searching for methods. Here is a comparison of before and after when searching for "filter"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As a side benefit of the documentation restructuring, we have seen a huge improvement in the quality of search results related to MUI X. Data Grid users can now see comprehensive results when searching for methods. Here is a comparison of before and after when searching for "filter":
```

---
title: 'Our docs just got a major upgrade—here's what that means for you'
description: Each of MUI's products now has its own dedicated documentation, making it easier than ever to find exactly what you need.
date: 2022-04-06T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['danilo-leal']

> tags: ['News']

Reviewer 5: If we ever https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Blog-SEO-structure-897c1ad742ec4274838a10f4bd6b3e3a put in place, it would then need this

```suggestion
tags: ['News', 'Product']
```

here.

---

As MUI continues to grow beyond our flagship product, Material UI (we [rebranded the company](/blog/material-ui-is-now-mui/) last year as a first step), it has become clear that the documentation for our products can no longer all live under one roof.

That's why we're excited to announce that we are shipping a major upgrade to our documentation, to make it easier than ever to find exactly what you need—no matter which MUI products you're working with.

## Wait... what MUI products are you talking about?

We currently offer two main product lines:

- **MUI Core**—a collection of foundational component libraries, including:
  - _Material UI_ —components that implement Google's Material Design
  - _MUI Base_ —unstyled components for implementing your own design system
  - _MUI System_ —CSS utilities for quickly laying out design systems
- **MUI X**—a collection of advanced components for complex use cases, including:

>   - _Data Grid_ —fast, feature-rich, extendable React data table

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - _Data grid_ —fast, feature-rich, extendable React data table
```

>   - _Date and Time Pickers_ —interface control components for selecting dates and times

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - _Date and Time pickers_ —interface control components for selecting dates and times
```

## What has changed?

> All MUI products still live under the [mui.com](http://mui.com) domain, but each of them now has its own respective URL and documentation.

Reviewer 5: It should be https, fixed in #32212.

We added an identifier and menu to the upper-left corner of the docs for improved navigation:

<img src="/static/blog/docs-updates/docs-separation.png" style="width: 796px; margin-top: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;" alt="Screenshot of the product identifier menu" />

As for the URLs, this is how they look now:

- MUI Core:
  - Material UI: [https://mui.com/material-ui/](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI Base: [https://mui.com/base/](https://mui.com/base/getting-started/installation/)
  - MUI System: [https://mui.com/system/](https://mui.com/system/basics/)
- MUI X:
  - Data Grid: [https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)
  - Date and Time Pickers: [https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/getting-started/)

> > 📖 The MUI X date and time pickers has been moved from the lab (`@mui/lab`). If you are curious about it, check out the [dedicated blog post](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
> 📖 The MUI X date and time pickers have been moved from the lab (`@mui/lab`). If you are curious about it, check out the [dedicated blog post](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).
```

Reviewer 5: And maybe to be clearer:

```suggestion
> 📖 The date and time pickers have been promoted from the lab (`@mui/lab`) to MUI X, saying MIT licensed. If you are curious about it, check out the [dedicated blog post](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).
```

Author: I'll leave it to @samuelsycamore for these grammar revisions. Regardless, the notion of "promoted" is good!

> > 📖 The date and time pickers has been promoted from the lab (`@mui/lab`) to MUI X, available in the MIT license. If you are curious about it, check out the [dedicated blog post](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> 📖 The date and time pickers have been promoted from the lab (`@mui/lab`) to MUI X—still available under the MIT license. To learn more, check out the [blog post about the newest MUI X components](/blog/lab-date-pickers-to-mui-x/).
```

### Improved search experience

The documentation restructuring ranks search results based on the product that you are currently looking at.

> For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation, when you press <kbd>⌘ K</kbd> and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation, when you press <kbd>⌘ K</kbd> (<kbd>Ctrl + K</kbd> for Windows) and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.
```

to be inclusive for the Windows users :)

> For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation, when you press <kbd>⌘ K</kbd> (<kbd>Ctrl + K</kbd> on Windows) and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.

Reviewer 5: The standard syntax and a11y one too. Same as done in https://mui.com/components/data-grid/accessibility/#navigation. AFAIK It **must** be:

```suggestion
For example, if you are looking at Material UI documentation, when you press <kbd><kbd class="key">⌘</kbd>+<kbd class="key">K</kbd></kbd> (<kbd><kbd class="key">CTRL</kbd>+<kbd class="key">K</kbd></kbd> on Windows) and type a keyword, you will find that most of the results are related to Material UI.
```

We have also added product labels for Material UI and MUI Base in case it's unclear which library the search results refer to.

<img src="/static/blog/docs-updates/docs-product-label.png" style="width: 796px; margin-top: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;" alt="Screenshot of the search results displaying product labels per result" />

> As a side benefit of the documentation restructuring, we have seen a huge improvement in the quality of search results related to MUI X. Data Grid users can now see comprehensive results when searching for features. Here is a comparison of before and after when searching for the "pagination" feature:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As a side benefit of the documentation restructuring, we have seen a huge improvement in the quality of search results related to MUI X. Data grid users can now see comprehensive results when searching for features. Here is a comparison of before and after when searching for the "pagination" feature:
```
